README.md, before:

csv2rdf
=======

Ruth Helfinstein
6/24/2012

CSV to RDF translator
Does a simple CSV to RDF translation.  
- Assumes the first line contains the attribute names
- Assumes all instances are separated by newlines and contain the right number of elements
- Items in the csv file may have quotes or not, it works either way.


Outputs the rdf file as <filename>.rdf
NOTE: It does not currently check if the output file already exists and will overwrite it if it does.

Looks for a configuration file called <filename>-config.csv, where <filename>.csv is the input file.
Each line in the configuration file describes one item in the header line of the input csv file
<csv_name>, <type>(<optional rdf_name>), <class>

where <csv_name> is the name seen in the header of the column in the csv file. 
<type> is either "class" or "property" or "ignore" (without quotes)
<rdf_name> in parenthesis is optional, indicates name to use for this property or class in the rdf file
<class> is the class (for a property) or superclass (for a class) 

the lines in the config file do not have to be in the same order as the columns in the csv file
with the exception of any columns with a blank name.  These will be renamed "unlabeled1" "unlabeled2" 
and will only match if they are in the same order.

NOTE: any columns NOT listed in the configuration file will be ignored in the rdf file.

If no configuration file is found, the program reverts to asking questions about which class to use.

Files:
csv2rdf.jar
input.csv  - sample input file
input-config.csv - sample config file
src - source files

To run CSV to RDF from the console:
java -jar csv2rdf.jar <input csv file name>
*** NOTE You can specify the name of the .csv file to use on the command line, otherwise it will default to input.csv



for example 
	java -jar csv2rdf.jar input.csv
creates
	input.rdf

Changes 2012.08.02
• Add configuration file

Changes 2012.07.04
• Ignore leading or trailing spaces in the csv
• Add a unlabeled1,unlabled2, unlabeld3... to any attribute in the csv that is not named.
• If there is a blank in the data, do not  add the property name to instance  
• Add additional input question: Do you want an 'all' class? 
If the user answers yes an "all" class is created as the
only subclass to Thing and everything  is subclassed to "all".

Commit message:

fix so an item can be both a class and a property.
This almost worked as is, but wasn't setting the column correctly for
both.  Updated CSVConfig to store a list of items for each column name.

README.md, after:

csv2rdf
=======

Ruth Helfinstein
6/24/2012

CSV to RDF translator
Does a simple CSV to RDF translation.  
- Assumes the first line contains the attribute names
- Assumes all instances are separated by newlines and contain the right number of elements
- Items in the csv file may have quotes or not, it works either way.


Outputs the rdf file as <filename>.rdf
NOTE: It does not currently check if the output file already exists and will overwrite it if it does.

Looks for a configuration file called <filename>-config.csv, where <filename>.csv is the input file.
Each line in the configuration file describes one item in the header line of the input csv file
<csv_name>, <type>(<optional rdf_name>), <class>

where <csv_name> is the name seen in the header of the column in the csv file. 
<type> is either "class" or "property" or "ignore" (without quotes)
<rdf_name> in parenthesis is optional, indicates name to use for this property or class in the rdf file
<class> is the class (for a property) or superclass (for a class) 

the lines in the config file do not have to be in the same order as the columns in the csv file
with the exception of any columns with a blank name.  These will be renamed "unlabeled1" "unlabeled2" 
and will only match if they are in the same order.

NOTE: any columns NOT listed in the configuration file will be ignored in the rdf file.

If no configuration file is found, the program will create a basic one (instead of outputting rdf)

Files:
csv2rdf.jar
input.csv  - sample input file
input-config.csv - sample config file
src - source files

To run CSV to RDF from the console:
java -jar csv2rdf.jar <input csv file name>
*** NOTE You can specify the name of the .csv file to use on the command line, otherwise it will default to input.csv



for example 
	java -jar csv2rdf.jar input.csv
creates
	input.rdf

Changes 2012.08.02
• Add configuration file

Changes 2012.07.04
• Ignore leading or trailing spaces in the csv
• Add a unlabeled1,unlabled2, unlabeld3... to any attribute in the csv that is not named.
• If there is a blank in the data, do not  add the property name to instance  
• Add additional input question: Do you want an 'all' class? 
If the user answers yes an "all" class is created as the
only subclass to Thing and everything  is subclassed to "all".
